# Aleo has successfully introduced Provers into network, officially kicking off Phase 2 of Testnet 3.

Aleo has successfully introduced Provers into network, officially kicking off Phase 2 of Testnet 3.Here’s what you need to know:

1. The issue with zero knowledge proofs is they can be slow & expensive to generate if your hardware isn’t optimized, especially for compute-intensive applications like authentication, ML, and gaming.
2. Aleo’s design enables you to outsource proof generation to third party “proving services” that have the computational resources necessary to support you.This solves the hardware issue, but opens another question.How do you bootstrap the proving services ecosystem?
3. Introducing AleoBFT - Aleo’s new consensus mechanism. AleoBFT leverages PoS to achieve instant finality for block confirmation & leverages PoW to incentivize the development of faster techniques for proof generation.AleoBFT is the best of both worlds.
4. With AleoBFT, provers solve and produce coinbase proofs on the network in exchange for a share of the coinbase rewards in each block.
5. This new design allows you to leverage the computational resources of third party provers while also bootstrapping the prover business model with rewards directly from the protocol.These two things will make Aleo unstoppable.
6. If you want to learn more about AleoBFT, you can [read more](202211102.md) about it here.
7. Incentives will be added in the near future so make sure you have notifications turned on!
